Glossary.rst, before:

.. _G:


Glossary
--------

.. note::
	Glossary is closely linked to the ontology developed by the consortium in order to support the definition of the :term:`RobotML` :term:`DSL`\ . The reader willing
	to know more about this subject is to follow `http://www.anr-proteus.fr/?q=node/111 <http://www.anr-proteus.fr/?q=node/111>`_

.. glossary::

   Acceleo
	  **Acceleo** is the tool used in the :term:`RobotML` platform to implement generators towards simulator and robotic middle-ware frameworks. More information can be found on `Acceleo website <http://www.eclipse.org/acceleo/>`_\ .

   Algorithm
     An algorithm is a recette describing elementary behaviour of module that
     can be found in robotic systems (see
     `wikipedia <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algorithm>`_ for more information)

   Application
	 It is a computing entity able to work upon a hardware that provides computing capabilities. It is also a computing entity capable of providing life to another software. At the bottom level, it is the OS of the computer.

   ANR
	 **ANR** stands for **A**\ gence **N**\ ationale de la **R**\ echerche. More information can be found on `ANR website <http://www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr>`_

   ATHENA
	 **ATHENA** is a language associated with generators to go towards specific simulator code. It was developed thanks to an open consortium during its infancy but in its later flavour is totally owned by Dassault Aviation and used in collaborative project to help integrate development of diverse contributors into a unique application (as an example do consider `http://www.pegase-project.eu <http://www.pegase-project.eu>`_\ ).

   ARROCAM
     ARROCAM is one of the existing Robotic middle-ware target that exists for the :term:`RobotML` JUNO flavour.
     This middle-ware is developped by EFFIDENCE company. More information is available following `www.effidence.com <http://www.effidence.com>`_

   blender
   BLENDER
      **BLENDER** is an open-source tool trying to provide the capabilities to model and animate 3D objects. It is very powerful and can be compared to
      existing 3D modeller such as `MAYA <http://www.autodesk.fr/products/autodesk-maya/overview>`_ . More information on the `BLENDER website <http://www.blender.org>`_

   BRICS
     **BRICS** stands for **B**\ est p\ **R**\ actice in robot \
     **ICS***\ . It is an European project which goals are overlapping PROTEUS project. More information can be found followin `http://www.best-of-robotics.org/
     <http://www.best-of-robotics.org/>`_\ )

   Cycab-Tk
     Cycab-Tk is one of the existing Environment simulator target that exists for the :term:`RobotML` JUNO flavour.
     This middle-ware is developped by a community under :term:`INRIA` direction. More information is available following `gforge.inria.fr/projects/cycabtk/ <https://gforge.inria.fr/projects/cycabtk/>`_      

   developper
      The **developper** is someone intervening on the :term:`RobotML` platfrom development and thus that interacts with the development's repositories.

   DEVS
      **DEVS** stands for **D**\ iscrete **EV**\ vent system **S**\
      pecification. It is a mathematical approach of how to model system and to
      simulate them. More information can be found on
      `DEVS wikipedia webpage <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DEVS>`_
   
   DSL
      **DSL** stands for **D**\ omain **S**\ pecific **L**\ anguage. Quotation
      from wikipedia:
      *It is a programming language or specification language dedicated to a particular problem domain, a particular problem representation technique, and/or a particular solution technique.*
      More information can be found following
      `http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language>`_

   ECLIPSE
      **ECLIPSE** is the platform on which the :term:`RobotML` tooling was
      built. More information on it can be found on
      `eclipse project website <http://www.eclipse.org/>`_\ .
   
   EMF
      **EMF** (**E**\ clipse **M**\ odeling **F**\ ramework) is an Eclipse-based
      modeling framework and code generation facility for building tools and other
      applications based on a structured data model.
   
   EPL
      **EPL** (**E**\ clipse **P**\ ublic **L**\ icense) is an open source
      software license used by the `Eclipse Foundation <http://www.eclipse.org>`_
      for its software.
   
   EUROP / EURON
      `EUROP / EURON <http://www.robotics-platform.eu/>`_ stands for EUROpean
      Platform / EUropean RObotics Network.

   git
      **git** is a distributed revision control and source code management (SCM)
      system.

   GDR Robotique
      **GDR** stands for **G**\ roupement **De**\  **R**\ echerche. It is a
      community backed up by the French research group CNRS that groups the
      different laboratories concerned by Robotic research topics. It is
      associated to a club grouping interested Industrial partners. A
      `Portal <http://www.gdr-robtique.org>`_ exists that  allows interested
      readers to access this community.

   INRIA
   inria
      **INRIA** stands for **I**\ nstitut **N**\ ational de **R**\ echerche en **I**\ nformatique et en **A**\ utomatique.
      It is a French research organism that focussed primly on STIC. More information on its `website <http://www.inria.fr>`_ .

   LAAS
      `LAAS <http://www.laas.fr/>`_ stands for **L**\ aboratoire d'**A**\ nalyse et d'**A**\ rchitecture des **S**\ ystèmes.
      It is the biggest French CNRS team and in the scope of :term:`RobotML` is supporting the :term:`MORSE` environment simulator.
   
   LIRMM
      `LIRMM <http://www.lirmm.fr>`_ stands for **L**\ aboratoire d'\ **I**\
      nformatique, de **R**\ obotique et de **M**\ icroelectronique de **M**\
      ontpellier

   MARTE
      **MARTE** (**M**\ odeling and **A**\ nalysis of **R**\ eal **T**\ ime and
      **E**\ mbedded systems) is the :term:`OMG` standard for modeling real-time
      and embedded applications with UML2.
   
   MBD
      **MBD** (**M**\ odel-**B**\ ased **D**\ esign) is a mathematical and
      visual method of addressing problems associated with designing complex
      control, signal processing and communication systems. It is used in many
      motion control, industrial equipment, aerospace, and automotive
      applications. Model-based design is a methodology applied in designing
      embedded software.
    
   MDA
      **MDA** (**M**\ odel-**D**\ riven **A**\ rchitecture) is a software design
      approach for the development of software systems. It provides a set of
      guidelines for the structuring of specifications, which are expressed as
      models. Model-driven architecture is a kind of domain engineering, and
      supports model-driven engineering of software systems. It was launched by
      the Object Management Group (:term:`OMG`) in 2001.

   middleware
      A middleware is a piece of software allowing its user to ignore complexities
      of the underlying software and / or hardware structure. As an example, robotic
      middleware try to promote a view where sensors and effectors are not to be
      programmed anymore but to be configured using the same methodology (see :term:`OROCOS`
      or :term:`RTMaps`)
   
   model
      A model provides an abstract view of the situation someone wants to convey
      to another person. This view if embodied using a Domain Specific Language
      can be used for other purposes such as documentation, generation of elements
      able to insert in a software application and so on and so forth

   module
      A **module** in our context is exclusively, as delivered from a portal,
      software. 

   MORSE
      It is an add-on of the :term:`BLENDER` 3D modelling environment that allows 
      to simulate Physical environment and physical objects deplyed into it.
      As an example, It is what create sensible information to the different sensors.
       
   OMG
      **OMG** (**O**\ bject **M**\ anagement **G**\ roup) is an international,
      open membership, not-for-profit computer industry standards consortium.
      :term:`OMG` Task Forces develop enterprise integration standards for a wide
      range of technologies and an even wider range of industries. :term:`OMG`'s
      modeling standards enable powerful visual design, execution and maintenance
      of software and other processes. Originally aimed at standardizing
      distributed object-oriented systems, the company now focuses on modeling
      (programs, systems and business processes) and model-based standards.

   OROCOS
      It stands for **O**\ pen **RO**\ bot **CO**\ ntrol **S**\ oftware. It is a
      component based architecture and its goal is to allow clear separation of
      behaviour implementation and architecture concerns. Another goal is to
      provide standard behaviour components for decision issues. More information
      can be found on `OROCOS website <http://www.orocos.org>`_\ .

   OS
      **OS** stands for **O**\ perating **S**\ ystem. It is the software that
      makes everything run on a computer

   PAPYRUS
   Papyrus
      **Papyrus** is the toolset on which the :term:`RobotML` language has been
      based. More information can be found on
      `papyrus website <http://www.eclipse.org/papyrus//>`_\ .

   portal
      The portal is the commonplace where the robotic community will be able to
      upload and download data

   PRISME
      `PRISME <http://www.ensi-bourges.fr/recherche/institut-prisme>`_ stands
      for institut **P**\ luridisciplaire de **R**\ echerche en **I**\ ngenierie
      des **S**\ ystemes **M**\ ecanique, **E**\ nergetique de Bourges

   problem
      A *problem* is

      1. the definition of the architecture of one or more robots and their environment (in our case, using the proteus main tool);
      2. the definition inside the robot(s) architecture of one or multiple components in which it is necessary to develop *solutions*; 
      3. the definition of  *probes* that allow *simulation* exploitation;
      4. the definition of the *metrics* and their associated validity domain in order to measure the *solution* quality and compare it to other *solutions*.    

   provider
      A provider is someone able to connect to the :term:`portal` in order to upload to it the elements he/she can provide

   PROTEUS
      It is the project that allowed the creation of all the data, tools,
      resources described by this documentation. **PROTEUS** stands for **P**\
      latform for **RO**\ botic modelling and **T**\ ransformations for **E**\
      nd-**U**\ sers and **S**\ cientific communities (There is also a french
      reading of this acronym: **P**\ lateforme pour la **R**\ obotique **O**\
      rganisant les **T**\ ransferts **E**\ ntre **U**\ tilisateurs et **S**\
      cientifiques). More information are to be found on
      `PROTEUS website <http://www.anr-proteus.fr>`_.

   RCP
      it stands for *R*\ ich *C*\ lient *P*\ latform. It is the tool used in
      order to create the :term:`RobotML` platform.

   RIM
      **RIM** stands for **R**\ obot **I**\ ndependant **M**\ odel. It is an attempt to create a repository of robotic architectures not linked to any particular
      robotic system and which, used in conjunction with :term:`RobotML` platform, may allow their user to share knowledge among the robotic community. RIM is
      specifically linked to a dedicated :term:`portal` that can be accessed through the `RIM portal link <http://europe.bourges.univ-orleans.fr/>`_

   robot
      **Robot** definition is of ambiguous nature. Considering its wikipedia
      embodiement:
      *A robot is usually an electro-mechanical machine that is guided by a program or circuitry. Robots can be autonomous, semi-autonomous or remotely controlled and range from humanoids such as ASIMO and TOPIO to Nano robots, 'swarm' robots, and industrial robots*\
      . It is a definition large enough to include aircraft, cars, mobile
      aspirators, etc. Considering the context, we will stick to this definition
      not emphasising humanoïd robots. 

   RobotML
      it stands for **Robot Modelling Language**. It is the Domain Specific
      Language that was developped during the PROTEUS project to allow Robotic
      community to create abstract views of robotic problems, solutions, etc.

   RobotML-sdk
      it stands for :term:`RobotML` **s**\ oftware **d**\ evelopment **t**\
      oolkit. It is the set of tools associated with the RobotML platform in order
      to allow generation towards different simulators / robotic middlewares
      targets. This sdk is supported for the time being only on UBUNTU12.04. For
      more detail consult
      :ref:`the page dedicated to the sdk installation <UG-PI-IPD>`\ .

   ROS
      `ROS <http://www.ros.org>`_ stands for Robot Operation System. its goal is
      to provide a standard framework allowing to make modules into application.
      In the :term`RobotML` platform context it has been chosen as the default
      communication bus.

   RTMaps
      N/A

   simulator
      It is an application that in RobotML-sdk context must be generated by the
      RobotML platform and that after a configuration phase is executed
   
   solution
      
      1. In a *problem* context, A *solution* is an *algorithm* itself possibly integrating an *architecture* that allows during the execution of a *simulator* to extract values from the defined *metrics* that remains in their validity domain.
      2. Subpart of interest in the software system of a robot. Its implementation is provided by a *Solution Provider*.

   scenario
      A **Scenario** is a context defined loosely where its reader will
      understand what are the elements she / he will find in the
      :term:`problems <problem>` that will be derived from it. In order to provide
      a scenario, there are no obligations to provide formalised elements such as
      required by a :term:`problem`\ . Video, documents, pictures, etc that are
      sufficient to let those willing to use them to understand this context. It
      can be detailed in many details as well as only explaining the different
      actors or only goals. 

   sensor
      Equipment that detects, measures, and/or records physical phenomena, and
      indicates objects and activities by means of energy or particles emitted,
      reflected, or modified by the objects and activities.

   SVN
      **SVN** stands for `SubVersioN <http://subversion.apache.org>`_\ . It is a
      Version Control software that allows developers to synchronise source code
      in a distributed fashion. In the context of :term:`RobotML` platform, there
      is on the :term:`portal` a SVN erver allowing :term:`user`\s to share their
      experiences
   
   Subclipse
      **Subclipse** is an Eclipse Team Provider plug-in providing support for
      Subversion within the Eclipse IDE. The software is released under the
      Eclipse Public License (:term:`EPL`) 1.0 open source license.
   
   SysML
      **SysML** (**S**\ ystems **M**\ odeling **L**\ anguage) is a
      general-purpose modeling language for systems engineering applications. It
      supports the specification, analysis, design, verification and validation of
      a broad range of systems and systems-of-systems.
   
   user
      A user is someone able to connect to the :term:`portal` in order to
      download from it the elements he/she would like to use namely the :term:`RobotML` platform

   VLE
      **VLE** stands for **V**\ irtual **L**\ aboratory **E**\ nvironment. It is
      an implementation of the :term:`DEVS` theory allowing its users to have a
      safe approach of their system models. More information can be found on
      `VLE website <http://www/vle-project.org>`_
   
   UML
      **UML** (**U**\ nified **M**\ odeling **L**\ anguage) is a standardized
      (ISO/IEC 19501:2005), general-purpose modeling language in the field of
      software engineering. The Unified Modeling Language includes a set of
      graphic notation techniques to create visual models of object-oriented
      software-intensive systems

   Xtext
      **Xtext** allows to define syntax, grammar. It is the basis of source
      coloured editor (in the platform case it is useful for the :term:`ATHENA`
      code edition)

Commit message:

modification of the .gitignore in order to allow generation of build into same folder modification of used stylesheet

Glossary.rst, after:

.. _G:


Glossary
--------

.. note::
	Glossary is closely linked to the ontology developed by the consortium in order to support the definition of the :term:`RobotML` :term:`DSL`\ . The reader willing
	to know more about this subject is to follow `http://www.anr-proteus.fr/?q=node/111 <http://www.anr-proteus.fr/?q=node/111>`_

.. glossary::

   Acceleo
	  **Acceleo** is the tool used in the :term:`RobotML` platform to implement generators towards simulator and robotic middle-ware frameworks. More information can be found on `Acceleo website <http://www.eclipse.org/acceleo/>`_\ .

   Algorithm
     An algorithm is a recette describing elementary behaviour of module that
     can be found in robotic systems (see
     `wikipedia <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algorithm>`_ for more information)

   Application
	 It is a computing entity able to work upon a hardware that provides computing capabilities. It is also a computing entity capable of providing life to another software. At the bottom level, it is the OS of the computer.

   ANR
	 **ANR** stands for **A**\ gence **N**\ ationale de la **R**\ echerche. More information can be found on `ANR website <http://www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr>`_

   ATHENA
	 **ATHENA** is a language associated with generators to go towards specific simulator code. It was developed thanks to an open consortium during its infancy but in its later flavour is totally owned by Dassault Aviation and used in collaborative project to help integrate development of diverse contributors into a unique application (as an example do consider `http://www.pegase-project.eu <http://www.pegase-project.eu>`_\ ).

   ARROCAM
     ARROCAM is one of the existing Robotic middle-ware target that exists for the :term:`RobotML` JUNO flavour.
     This middle-ware is developped by EFFIDENCE company. More information is available following `www.effidence.com <http://www.effidence.com>`_

   blender
   BLENDER
      **BLENDER** is an open-source tool trying to provide the capabilities to model and animate 3D objects. It is very powerful and can be compared to
      existing 3D modeller such as `MAYA <http://www.autodesk.fr/products/autodesk-maya/overview>`_ . More information on the `BLENDER website <http://www.blender.org>`_

   BRICS
     **BRICS** stands for **B**\ est p\ **R**\ actice in robot \
     **ICS***\ . It is an European project which goals are overlapping PROTEUS project. More information can be found followin `http://www.best-of-robotics.org/
     <http://www.best-of-robotics.org/>`_\ )

   Cycab-Tk
     Cycab-Tk is one of the existing Environment simulator target that exists for the :term:`RobotML` JUNO flavour.
     This middle-ware is developped by a community under :term:`INRIA` direction. More information is available following `gforge.inria.fr/projects/cycabtk/ <https://gforge.inria.fr/projects/cycabtk/>`_      

   developper
      The **developper** is someone intervening on the :term:`RobotML` platfrom development and thus that interacts with the development's repositories.

   DEVS
      **DEVS** stands for **D**\ iscrete **EV**\ vent system **S**\
      pecification. It is a mathematical approach of how to model system and to
      simulate them. More information can be found on
      `DEVS wikipedia webpage <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DEVS>`_
   
   DSL
      **DSL** stands for **D**\ omain **S**\ pecific **L**\ anguage. Quotation
      from wikipedia:
      *It is a programming language or specification language dedicated to a particular problem domain, a particular problem representation technique, and/or a particular solution technique.*
      More information can be found following
      `http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language>`_

   ECLIPSE
      **ECLIPSE** is the platform on which the :term:`RobotML` tooling was
      built. More information on it can be found on
      `eclipse project website <http://www.eclipse.org/>`_\ .
   
   EMF
      **EMF** (**E**\ clipse **M**\ odeling **F**\ ramework) is an Eclipse-based
      modeling framework and code generation facility for building tools and other
      applications based on a structured data model.
   
   EPL
      **EPL** (**E**\ clipse **P**\ ublic **L**\ icense) is an open source
      software license used by the `Eclipse Foundation <http://www.eclipse.org>`_
      for its software.
   
   EUROP / EURON
      `EUROP / EURON <http://www.robotics-platform.eu/>`_ stands for EUROpean
      Platform / EUropean RObotics Network.

   git
      **git** is a distributed revision control and source code management (SCM)
      system.

   GDR Robotique
      **GDR** stands for **G**\ roupement **De**\  **R**\ echerche. It is a
      community backed up by the French research group CNRS that groups the
      different laboratories concerned by Robotic research topics. It is
      associated to a club grouping interested Industrial partners. A
      `Portal <http://www.gdr-robtique.org>`_ exists that  allows interested
      readers to access this community.

   INRIA
   inria
      **INRIA** stands for **I**\ nstitut **N**\ ational de **R**\ echerche en **I**\ nformatique et en **A**\ utomatique.
      It is a French research organism that focussed primly on STIC. More information on its `website <http://www.inria.fr>`_ .

   LAAS
      `LAAS <http://www.laas.fr/>`_ stands for **L**\ aboratoire d'**A**\ nalyse et d'**A**\ rchitecture des **S**\ ystèmes.
      It is the biggest French CNRS team and in the scope of :term:`RobotML` is supporting the :term:`MORSE` environment simulator.
   
   LIRMM
      `LIRMM <http://www.lirmm.fr>`_ stands for **L**\ aboratoire d'\ **I**\
      nformatique, de **R**\ obotique et de **M**\ icroelectronique de **M**\
      ontpellier

   MARTE
      **MARTE** (**M**\ odeling and **A**\ nalysis of **R**\ eal **T**\ ime and
      **E**\ mbedded systems) is the :term:`OMG` standard for modeling real-time
      and embedded applications with UML2.
   
   MBD
      **MBD** (**M**\ odel-**B**\ ased **D**\ esign) is a mathematical and
      visual method of addressing problems associated with designing complex
      control, signal processing and communication systems. It is used in many
      motion control, industrial equipment, aerospace, and automotive
      applications. Model-based design is a methodology applied in designing
      embedded software.
    
   MDA
      **MDA** (**M**\ odel-**D**\ riven **A**\ rchitecture) is a software design
      approach for the development of software systems. It provides a set of
      guidelines for the structuring of specifications, which are expressed as
      models. Model-driven architecture is a kind of domain engineering, and
      supports model-driven engineering of software systems. It was launched by
      the Object Management Group (:term:`OMG`) in 2001.

   middleware
      A middleware is a piece of software allowing its user to ignore complexities
      of the underlying software and / or hardware structure. As an example, robotic
      middleware try to promote a view where sensors and effectors are not to be
      programmed anymore but to be configured using the same methodology (see :term:`OROCOS`
      or :term:`RTMaps`)
   
   model
      A model provides an abstract view of the situation someone wants to convey
      to another person. This view if embodied using a Domain Specific Language
      can be used for other purposes such as documentation, generation of elements
      able to insert in a software application and so on and so forth

   module
      A **module** in our context is exclusively, as delivered from a portal,
      software. 

   MORSE
      It is an add-on of the :term:`BLENDER` 3D modelling environment that allows 
      to simulate Physical environment and physical objects deplyed into it.
      As an example, It is what create sensible information to the different sensors.
       
   OMG
      **OMG** (**O**\ bject **M**\ anagement **G**\ roup) is an international,
      open membership, not-for-profit computer industry standards consortium.
      :term:`OMG` Task Forces develop enterprise integration standards for a wide
      range of technologies and an even wider range of industries. :term:`OMG`'s
      modeling standards enable powerful visual design, execution and maintenance
      of software and other processes. Originally aimed at standardizing
      distributed object-oriented systems, the company now focuses on modeling
      (programs, systems and business processes) and model-based standards.

   OROCOS
      It stands for **O**\ pen **RO**\ bot **CO**\ ntrol **S**\ oftware. It is a
      component based architecture and its goal is to allow clear separation of
      behaviour implementation and architecture concerns. Another goal is to
      provide standard behaviour components for decision issues. More information
      can be found on `OROCOS website <http://www.orocos.org>`_\ .

   OS
      **OS** stands for **O**\ perating **S**\ ystem. It is the software that
      makes everything run on a computer

   PAPYRUS
   Papyrus
      **Papyrus** is the toolset on which the :term:`RobotML` language has been
      based. More information can be found on
      `papyrus website <http://www.eclipse.org/papyrus//>`_\ .

   portal
      The portal is the commonplace where the robotic community will be able to
      upload and download data

   PRISME
      `PRISME <http://www.ensi-bourges.fr/recherche/institut-prisme>`_ stands
      for institut **P**\ luridisciplaire de **R**\ echerche en **I**\ ngenierie
      des **S**\ ystemes **M**\ ecanique, **E**\ nergetique de Bourges

   problem
      A *problem* is

      1. the definition of the architecture of one or more robots and their environment (in our case, using the proteus main tool);
      2. the definition inside the robot(s) architecture of one or multiple components in which it is necessary to develop *solutions*; 
      3. the definition of  *probes* that allow *simulation* exploitation;
      4. the definition of the *metrics* and their associated validity domain in order to measure the *solution* quality and compare it to other *solutions*.    

   provider
      A provider is someone able to connect to the :term:`portal` in order to upload to it the elements he/she can provide

   PROTEUS
      It is the project that allowed the creation of all the data, tools,
      resources described by this documentation. **PROTEUS** stands for **P**\
      latform for **RO**\ botic modelling and **T**\ ransformations for **E**\
      nd-**U**\ sers and **S**\ cientific communities (There is also a french
      reading of this acronym: **P**\ lateforme pour la **R**\ obotique **O**\
      rganisant les **T**\ ransferts **E**\ ntre **U**\ tilisateurs et **S**\
      cientifiques). More information are to be found on
      `PROTEUS website <http://www.anr-proteus.fr>`_.

   RCP
      it stands for *R*\ ich *C*\ lient *P*\ latform. It is the tool used in
      order to create the :term:`RobotML` platform.

   RIM
      **RIM** stands for **R**\ obot **I**\ ndependant **M**\ odel. It is an attempt to create a repository of robotic architectures not linked to any particular
      robotic system and which, used in conjunction with :term:`RobotML` platform, may allow their user to share knowledge among the robotic community. RIM is
      specifically linked to a dedicated :term:`portal` that can be accessed through the `RIM portal link <http://europe.bourges.univ-orleans.fr/>`_

   robot
      **Robot** definition is of ambiguous nature. Considering its wikipedia
      embodiement:
      *A robot is usually an electro-mechanical machine that is guided by a program or circuitry. Robots can be autonomous, semi-autonomous or remotely controlled and range from humanoids such as ASIMO and TOPIO to Nano robots, 'swarm' robots, and industrial robots*\
      . It is a definition large enough to include aircraft, cars, mobile
      aspirators, etc. Considering the context, we will stick to this definition
      not emphasising humanoïd robots. 

   RobotML
      it stands for **Robot Modelling Language**. It is the Domain Specific
      Language that was developped during the PROTEUS project to allow Robotic
      community to create abstract views of robotic problems, solutions, etc.

   RobotML-sdk
      it stands for :term:`RobotML` **s**\ oftware **d**\ evelopment **t**\
      oolkit. It is the set of tools associated with the RobotML platform in order
      to allow generation towards different simulators / robotic middlewares
      targets. This sdk is supported for the time being only on UBUNTU12.04. For
      more detail consult
      :ref:`the page dedicated to the sdk installation <UG-PI-IPD>`\ .

   ROS
      `ROS <http://www.ros.org>`_ stands for Robot Operation System. its goal is
      to provide a standard framework allowing to make modules into application.
      In the :term:`RobotML` platform context it has been chosen as the default
      communication bus.

   RTMaps
      `RTMaps <http://www.intempora.com/>`_ stands for **R**\ eal-**T**\ ime **M**\ ultimodal **AP**\ plication\ **S**\ . It is in its 4th flavour and is an asynchronous high performance platform designed to face and win multisensor challenges and to allow engineers and researchers to take an advantage of an efficient and easy-to-use framework for fast and robust developments.

   simulator
      It is an application that in RobotML-sdk context must be generated by the
      RobotML platform and that after a configuration phase is executed
   
   solution
      
      1. In a *problem* context, A *solution* is an *algorithm* itself possibly integrating an *architecture* that allows during the execution of a *simulator* to extract values from the defined *metrics* that remains in their validity domain.
      2. Subpart of interest in the software system of a robot. Its implementation is provided by a *Solution Provider*.

   scenario
      A **Scenario** is a context defined loosely where its reader will
      understand what are the elements she / he will find in the
      :term:`problems <problem>` that will be derived from it. In order to provide
      a scenario, there are no obligations to provide formalised elements such as
      required by a :term:`problem`\ . Video, documents, pictures, etc that are
      sufficient to let those willing to use them to understand this context. It
      can be detailed in many details as well as only explaining the different
      actors or only goals. 

   sensor
      Equipment that detects, measures, and/or records physical phenomena, and
      indicates objects and activities by means of energy or particles emitted,
      reflected, or modified by the objects and activities.

   SVN
      **SVN** stands for `SubVersioN <http://subversion.apache.org>`_\ . It is a
      Version Control software that allows developers to synchronise source code
      in a distributed fashion. In the context of :term:`RobotML` platform, there
      is on the :term:`portal` a SVN erver allowing :term:`user`\s to share their
      experiences
   
   Subclipse
      **Subclipse** is an Eclipse Team Provider plug-in providing support for
      Subversion within the Eclipse IDE. The software is released under the
      Eclipse Public License (:term:`EPL`) 1.0 open source license.
   
   SysML
      **SysML** (**S**\ ystems **M**\ odeling **L**\ anguage) is a
      general-purpose modeling language for systems engineering applications. It
      supports the specification, analysis, design, verification and validation of
      a broad range of systems and systems-of-systems.
   
   user
      A user is someone able to connect to the :term:`portal` in order to
      download from it the elements he/she would like to use namely the :term:`RobotML` platform

   VLE
      **VLE** stands for **V**\ irtual **L**\ aboratory **E**\ nvironment. It is
      an implementation of the :term:`DEVS` theory allowing its users to have a
      safe approach of their system models. More information can be found on
      `VLE website <http://www.vle-project.org>`_
   
   UML
      **UML** (**U**\ nified **M**\ odeling **L**\ anguage) is a standardized
      (ISO/IEC 19501:2005), general-purpose modeling language in the field of
      software engineering. The Unified Modeling Language includes a set of
      graphic notation techniques to create visual models of object-oriented
      software-intensive systems

   Xtext
      **Xtext** allows to define syntax, grammar. It is the basis of source
      coloured editor (in the platform case it is useful for the :term:`ATHENA`
      code edition)
